add a post on revamped kernels. (#3448)
huggingface/blog: revamped-kernels.md

Reviewer: I would have added a link to the current post inside https://huggingface.co/blog/kernel-builder.

---
title: "🤗 Kernels: Major Updates"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/revamped-kernels/thumbnail.png
authors:
  - user: sayakpaul
  - user: danieldk
  - user: drbh
---

# 🤗 Kernels: Major Updates

> In our [previous post](https://huggingface.co/blog/kernel-builder), we introduced the Kernels project, which aims at standardizing how custom kernels are packaged, distributed, and consumed. We want the project to be frictionless and secure, while making it as Hub-friendly as possible. Over the past few months, we have worked towards this goal. In the process, we also almost completely redesigned the Kernel Builder. This post will summarize the major updates we have shipped and what’s coming.

Reviewer: This is the first time people might be introduced to the term "Kernel Builder", so I would not mention "redesigning" it here.

```suggestion
In our [previous post (From Zero to GPU)](https://huggingface.co/blog/kernel-builder), we introduced the 🤗 Kernels project, which aims at standardizing how custom kernels are packaged, distributed, and consumed. We want the project to be frictionless and secure, while making it as Hub-friendly as possible.

Over the past few months, we have worked towards this goal. In the process, we also almost completely redesigned the project. This post will summarize the major updates we have shipped and what’s coming.
```

**Table of contents**

* [Kernels – a new repository type](#kernels--a-new-repository-type)
* [Improved security](#improved-security)
* [Revamped CLIs](#revamped-clis)
* [More coverage of frameworks and backends](#more-coverage-of-frameworks-and-backends)
* [Foundation for agentic kernel development](#foundation-for-agentic-kernel-development)
* [Misc](#misc)
* [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## Kernels – a new repository type

> We introduced a new repository type on the Hub: “kernel”. This enables us to cater to users with compute-related specificities. For example, a user can get a sense of which accelerators, operating systems, and backend versions are supported for a given kernel:

Reviewer: Looking at the URL hf.co/kernels (with the `s`)

```suggestion
We have introduced a new repository type on the Hub called [“kernels”](https://huggingface.co/kernels). This enables us to cater to users with compute-related specificities. For example, a user can get a sense of which accelerators, operating systems, and backend versions are supported for a given kernel:
```

Author: The repo type is called kernel and not kernels.

Author: But I will hyperlink it.

<figure align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/revamped-kernels/flash-attn3.png" alt="Flash Attention 3 Kernel Page" width="600"/>
    <figcaption>Kernel page: <a href="https://huggingface.co/kernels/kernels-community/flash-attn3">kernels-community/flash-attn3</a></figcaption>
</figure>

One can browse all available kernels on the Hub here: [https://huggingface.co/kernels](https://huggingface.co/kernels). 

> Making these kernels first-class citizens of the Hub also benefits the AI ecosystem – users can see trends across kernels, models, and the applications that use them. The kernels also become more discoverable to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making these kernels first-class citizens of the Hub also benefits the AI ecosystem. Users can now see trends across kernels, models, and the applications that use them. The kernels become more discoverable to users.
```

## Improved security

> Security has always been of utmost importance to the kernels project. This has led to an early focus on reproducibility – a kernel user should be able to recompile a kernel to verify that it was compiled from publicly available source code. This is made possible by using Nix, which makes a build as pure as possible through hermetic evaluation of the build recipe and a strongly isolated build sandbox. We further improve provenance by embedding the source Git SHA1 into the kernel itself.

Reviewer: I think this reads too technical (if that is the flavour you are going for, then please ignore this comment).

I would like to introduce why security is a concern for kernels in the first place. After establishing that, I would move towards providing more information about Nix and how it helps the cause.

Author: done.

In recent months, we have added additional layers of defense: trusted kernel publishers and code signing.

### Trusted kernel publishers

With the new repo type, we also introduced “trusted publishers”. Since kernels execute code on a machine with the same privileges as the Python process they are used in, an attacker could compromise machines by uploading a malicious kernel and coaxing you to use that kernel. To help you avoid such malicious kernels, the kernels package will now only load kernels by *trusted publishers* by default. A trusted publisher is an organization that is trusted by the community to act in good faith.

We still want to support loading kernels from organizations or users that are not trusted publishers, but you have to explicitly opt in using the `trust_remote_code` argument when loading a kernel from the Hub:

```py 
from kernels import get_kernel

kernel_module = get_kernel(  

>    “sgl-project/sgl-flash-attn3”, version=1, trust_remote_code=True  

Reviewer: Probably not a good example to use `sgl-project`?

Author: Why?

Reviewer: This directly hints to the fact that `sgl-project` is not a trusted publisher.

Author: It's not yet. But I have changed it to another kernel.

)  
```

> By default, users cannot publish kernel repositories on the Hub. They have to request to be a kernel publisher. This gives us time to treat these requests on a case-by-case basis.

Reviewer: Should we add a link to "how one can request to be a kernel publisher" here?

To further improve security, we use Sigstore’s cosign to sign using ephemeral private keys. Since these signing keys are only valid for a limited time, an attacker typically cannot use the private key, even when it is leaked. We also verify that the kernel was signed by a trusted GitHub workflow from a trusted GitHub repository.

Kernel signing is already supported by `kernel-builder` and we have provided the `kernels verify-signature` to verify a kernel. Kernels does not verify the signature upon loading a kernel yet, since we would like to test this new functionality more before fully rolling it out. Preliminary notes on setting up code signing for your own kernels can be found in the kernels 0.16.0 release notes: [https://github.com/huggingface/kernels/releases/tag/v0.16.0](https://github.com/huggingface/kernels/releases/tag/v0.16.0). 

## Revamped CLIs

> Previously, a bunch of utilities were intertwined between `kernels` and `kernel-builder`. We have established a better separation of concern between the CLI of `kernels` and `kernel-builder`. The mental model here is that `kernels` is a library for loading and preparing kernels for use. Therefore, it should not include anything related to “building” kernels. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, a bunch of utilities were intertwined between `kernels` and `kernel-builder`. We have now established a better separation. The mental model one should have is `kernels` is a library for loading and preparing kernels while `kernel-builder` is to "build" them. 
```

Author: "Separation of concern" is an established philosophy in the software world. So, I will keep this section as is.

* [`kernels` CLI](https://huggingface.co/docs/kernels/en/cli)  
* [`kernel-builder` CLI](https://huggingface.co/docs/kernels/en/builder-cli)

## More coverage of frameworks and backends {#more-coverage-of-frameworks-and-backends}

We have extended support for frameworks, the most visible changes are:

* We added support for the Torch Stable ABI to kernels and kernel-builder. The Torch Stable ABI allows kernel developers to target a particular Torch version or any version that is released after it for roughly two years. For instance, a kernel that targets the Torch 2.9 Stable ABI support Torch \>= 2.9.  
* Apache TVM FFI is the first framework to be supported besides Torch. TVM FFI is standardized ABI for kernels that interoperates with other frameworks such as PyTorch, Jax and CuPy. This allows kernel developers to make kernels that runs across frameworks.

## Foundation for agentic kernel development

`kernel-builder` and `kernels` complement the rise of agentic kernel development wherein an agent is leveraged to come up with an (optimized) kernel from scratch. Together, they support a workflow in which agents can scaffold, build, benchmark, and iteratively optimize kernels.

> Agentic kernel development is still nascent, and the right development loops will continue to evolve. That makes simple, clear fundamentals especially important: the tools should be easy to compose into whichever agent workflows or frameworks people choose to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agentic kernel development is still nascent, and the right development loops will continue to evolve. That makes simple, clear fundamentals especially important where the tools should be easy to compose into whichever agent workflows or frameworks people choose to use.
```

`kernel-builder` helps enforce a structure in how kernel source code should be scaffolded and used to perform reproducible builds. This gives agents a predictable project layout and repeatable workflow to operate within. Its CLI is also meant to be [agent-optimized](https://huggingface.co/blog/is-it-agentic-enough). For example, this can mean non-interactive commands and outputs that are straightforward for an agent to interpret programmatically. To this end, we also have [backend-specific skills](https://huggingface.co/docs/kernels/en/cli-skills) to help agents navigate the idiosyncrasies of different backends. These skills can capture backend-specific toolchains, compilation paths, and performance considerations.

> Building a kernel successfully isn’t the full story – we need to ensure that it delivers actual speedups over a baseline on the target hardware. A successful build is therefore only the first validation step. Usually, this target hardware can include many different accelerators, even different families of the same accelerator. This makes it important to evaluate results across hardware vendors and generations where relevant. Our tight [integration with HF Jobs](https://huggingface.co/docs/kernels/en/builder/github-actions) can make this benchmarking process easy. Agents can use this integration to run benchmark suites, collect performance results, and compare them against a defined baseline. This way, agents can run tests across different hardware configurations to get reliable feedback on the performance of the generated kernels and identify what needs to be done. That feedback can then inform the next optimization iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building a kernel successfully isn’t the only goal, we need to ensure that it delivers actual speedups over a baseline on the target hardware. A successful build is therefore only the first validation step. Usually, this target hardware can include many different accelerators, even different families of the same accelerator.

 This makes it important to evaluate results across hardware vendors and generations where relevant. Our tight [integration with HF Jobs](https://huggingface.co/docs/kernels/en/builder/github-actions) can make this benchmarking process easy. Agents can use this integration to run benchmark suites, collect performance results, and compare them against a defined baseline.
 
This way, agents can run tests across different hardware configurations to get reliable feedback on the performance of the generated kernels and identify what needs to be done. That feedback can then inform the next optimization iteration.
```

Below are some examples of agent-augmented kernels. These illustrate the kinds of kernels that can be developed and evaluated through this workflow: 

* [https://huggingface.co/kernels/drbh/yamoe](https://huggingface.co/kernels/drbh/yamoe)   
* [https://huggingface.co/kernels/sayakpaul/qk-norm-rope](https://huggingface.co/kernels/sayakpaul/qk-norm-rope) 

## Misc

### Environment setup

> The environment setup for building kernels with `kernel-builder` can be daunting. To make it easier for users, we now have an [installation script](https://huggingface.co/docs/kernels/en/builder/writing-kernels#quick-install) for setting up an environment in one click. If you prefer working with ephemeral instances, our [Terraform setup guide](https://github.com/huggingface/kernels/tree/main/terraform) is worth following. 

Reviewer: I think this is a very important paragraph that hides inside the "Misc" section. I would definitely push this as a section of its own.

(perfectly fine to ignore this comment, if the team does not align with my opinions)
